README.md, before:

# graph_performance

## Test Suite
### Pacer Tests
* Filter - the default pacer method for selecting an edge by property
  *  #<outE(:tickets) -> E-Property(date=="2013-09-19", ticket_id=="58068") -> inV>
* VCI - use the vertex query from pacer titan to do the same
  * #<VertexQuery (tickets - out) -> inV>
* EXT - use a pacer extension to wrap the Vertex and use the filter method
  * #<outE(:tickets) -> E-Property(date=="2013-09-19", ticket_id=="58068") -> inV -> V>
### Gremlin Tests
* VCI - use outE(:tickets).has(...) which implements a VCI query
  * [GraphStep([v[4226]],vertex), VertexStep(OUT,[tickets],edge), HasStep([date.eq(2014-03-10)]), HasStep([ticket_id.eq(70331)]), EdgeVertexStep(IN)]
## Setup

`$ bundle install --path vendor/support`

## execution

### Start DynamoDb local
`$ dynamodb-local --inMemory -port 9389`
Must restart each time you make data...


### make some test data
Make a store with 1000 tickets. Save 100 of them to sample in profiling.

`$ bundle exec ruby scripts/test_data.rb 1000 100`

Expected result:
```
starting script
Settting titan schema!
Making data
Tada - inserted 100 tickets for a store and wrote 100 properties to disk
```

### Running the filter test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.

`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb filter 50`

Expected output(profile results vary):
```
Profiling enabled; ^C shutdown will now dump profile info
starting script
Got store vertex in: 0.181 seconds
Getting vertex by edge properties
last ticket {"date"=>"2015-09-22", "ticket_id"=>"10586"}
Total time: 0.39

     total        self    children       calls  method
----------------------------------------------------------------
      0.39        0.00        0.39         929  Array#each
      0.30        0.00        0.30          51  Enumerable.first
      0.30        0.00        0.30          51  Pacer::Core::Route.each
      0.26        0.00        0.25          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipes::AbstractPipe#next
      0.25        0.00        0.25          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#processNextStart
      0.25        0.25        0.00          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipesTransform::InVertexPipe#next
      0.07        0.00        0.07          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.out_e
      0.06        0.00        0.06         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#chain
      0.04        0.00        0.04         767  Class#new
      0.04        0.00        0.04          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.outE
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Wrappers::ElementWrapper#chain_route
      0.03        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::Core::Route.chain_route
      0.03        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::Route.property_filter
      0.03        0.00        0.03         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_def
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Core::Route.iterator
      0.03        0.00        0.03        2703  Kernel.send
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.in_v
      0.02        0.00        0.02         102  Pacer::Core::Route.build_pipeline
      0.02        0.00        0.02         306  ConcreteJavaProxy.new
      0.02        0.00        0.02         153  Pacer::Core::Route.pipe_source
      0.02        0.00        0.01        3978  Hash#[]
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter.build_pipeline
      0.02        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extension_modules
      0.02        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::Route.edge_filters
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::ElementRoute.configure_iterator
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.inV
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#configuration
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1938  Hash#fetch
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#all_extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         918  Pacer::RouteBuilder#element_type
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Wrappers::WrapperSelector.build
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.extract_labels
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Wrappers::VertexWrapper.wrapper_for
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01         612  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_from_source?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#wrapper
      0.01        0.00        0.00        2193  Pacer::RouteBuilder#source_value
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#function_modules
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Set#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  ConcreteJavaProxy#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1071  Pacer::RouteBuilder#graph
      0.01        0.00        0.00         306  Pacer::FunctionResolver.function
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Hash#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         255  Array#map
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::Core::Route.source_iterator
Tada - Got 51 of 100 edges using filter!
```

### Running the vci test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.
`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb vci 50`

Expected output (profile results vary):
```
Profiling enabled; ^C shutdown will now dump profile info
starting script
Got store vertex in: 0.189 seconds
Getting vertex by edge properties
last ticket {"date"=>"2015-09-22", "ticket_id"=>"10586"}
Total time: 3.83

     total        self    children       calls  method
----------------------------------------------------------------
      3.83        0.00        3.82         516  Array#each
      3.73        0.00        3.73          51  Enumerable.first
      3.73        0.00        3.72          51  Pacer::Core::Route.each
      3.68        0.00        3.68         102  Java::ComTinkerpopPipes::AbstractPipe#next
      3.68        0.00        3.68          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#processNextStart
      3.68        0.00        3.67          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipesTransform::InVertexPipe#next
      3.67        0.00        3.67          51  Pacer::Pipes::VertexQueryPipe#processNextStart
      3.62        3.62        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbQueryVertex::VertexCentricQueryBuilder#edges
      0.07        0.00        0.07         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#chain
      0.05        0.00        0.05          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.vertex_query
      0.05        0.00        0.05         562  Class#new
      0.05        0.00        0.05          51  Pacer::Wrappers::ElementWrapper#chain_route
      0.04        0.00        0.04          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.in_v
      0.04        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_def
      0.03        0.00        0.03         204  ConcreteJavaProxy.new
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.inV
      0.03        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Route.chain_route
      0.02        0.00        0.02        1479  Kernel.send
      0.02        0.01        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extension_modules
      0.02        0.00        0.02        2907  Hash#[]
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::ElementRoute.configure_iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Route.iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#initialize
      0.02        0.02        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbQuery::ResultSetIterator::1#iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Wrappers::WrapperSelector.build
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Wrappers::VertexWrapper.wrapper_for
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Route.property_filter
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#all_extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         612  Pacer::RouteBuilder#element_type
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1071  Hash#fetch
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#configuration
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Set#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Route.edge_filters
      0.01        0.00        0.01         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#wrapper
      0.01        0.00        0.01         408  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_from_source?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         714  Pacer::RouteBuilder#graph
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbVertices::CacheVertex#query
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.attach_pipe
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1122  Pacer::RouteBuilder#source_value
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.pipe_source
      0.01        0.00        0.00         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extensions
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Hash#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#function_modules
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.source_iterator
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.00          51  BasicObject#instance_exec
      0.01        0.00        0.00         204  Pacer::FunctionResolver.function
      0.01        0.00        0.00         102  Pacer::Route#initialize
Tada - Got 51 of 100 edges using vci!
```

### Running the ext test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.
`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb ext 50`


### Running the Gremlin tests
Follow the instructions in https://github.com/awslabs/dynamodb-titan-storage-backend

`bin/gremlin.sh  scripts/test_data.groovy`

`bin/gremlin.sh  scripts/gremlin_testing.groovy`

Currently, I can't get command line args to work with the script executor... so just modify the script for the values you want...

## Benchmark Results
Test results for gremlin and pacer

### Results
Times are from the profiled code block, best of 3 manual executions
Using Titan Dynamo backend with '--inmemeory'

#### Getting tickets by date and id:
| Tickets | Samples | VCI    (s)| Filter (s) | Ext    (s) | Gremlin(s) |
| ------: | ------: | ---------:| ----------:| ----------:| ----------:|
| 100     | 10      | 0.81      | 0.23       | 0.24       | 1.184      |
| 1000    | 10      | 0.74      | 0.33       | 0.33       | 1.072      |
| 10000   | 10      | 0.87      | 0.46       | 0.43       | 1.101      |
| 100000  | 10      | 0.84      | 0.97       | N/A        | N/A        |
| 10000   | 1       | 0.25      | 0.36       | 0.36       | 0.446      |
| 10000   | 50      | 3.55      | 0.54       | 0.60       | 3.61       |
| 10000   | 100     | 6.62      | 1.01       | 0.95       | 7.155      |
| 10000   | 1000    | 63.7      | 6.06       | 6.46       | 66.035     |
Did not test the ext method or gremlin with the largest graph.

The test results above are all for getting the vertex by edge properties that are known to exist.
Doing an existence check for properties that are not present is slightly slower for filter, almost the same for VCI methods. This is relevant for upsert operations.

### Environment
#### System
```
  Model Name: MacBook Pro
  Model Identifier: MacBookPro11,3
  Processor Name: Intel Core i7
  Processor Speed:  2.3 GHz
  Number of Processors: 1
  Total Number of Cores:  4
  L2 Cache (per Core):  256 KB
  L3 Cache: 6 MB
  Memory: 16 GB
```
OSX El Capitan, version 10.11.2 (15C50)

#### Java
```
$ java -version
java version "1.8.0_40"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_40-b25)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.40-b25, mixed mode)
```

#### Ruby
```
$ ruby --version
jruby 1.7.22 (1.9.3p551) 2015-08-20 c28f492 on Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 1.8.0_40-b25 +jit [darwin-x86_64]
```

#### DynamoDB Local
```
$ brew info dynamodb-local
dynamodb-local: stable 2015-07-16_1.0
Cient-side database and server imitating DynamoDB
```
See config directory for options used
Run with:
`$ dynamodb-local --inMemory -port 9389`

#### Bundled Gems and Jars
com.amazonaws:dynamodb-titan054-storage-backend:1.0.0
com.thinkaurelius.titan:titan-core:jar:0.5.4
com.thinkaurelius.titan:titan-es:jar:0.5.4
com.tinkerpop.blueprints:blueprints-core:jar:2.6.0

pacer (2.0.24-java)
pacer-titan (0.0.7-java)

See Jarfile.lock and Gemfile.lock for more details...


#### Gremlin Testing with Titan 1.0.0
gremlin 3.0.1-incubating
https://github.com/awslabs/dynamodb-titan-storage-backend/tree/d1a59624dcef796b835e7ffb41f0a3f007008d63

Commit message:

Add test results for partitioning and edge indexing

README.md, after:

# graph_performance

## Test Suite
### Pacer Tests
* Filter - the default pacer method for selecting an edge by property
  *  #<outE(:tickets) -> E-Property(date=="2013-09-19", ticket_id=="58068") -> inV>
* VCI - use the vertex query from pacer titan to do the same
  * #<VertexQuery (tickets - out) -> inV>
* EXT - use a pacer extension to wrap the Vertex and use the filter method
  * #<outE(:tickets) -> E-Property(date=="2013-09-19", ticket_id=="58068") -> inV -> V>
### Gremlin Tests
* VCI - use outE(:tickets).has(...) which implements a VCI query
  * [GraphStep([v[4226]],vertex), VertexStep(OUT,[tickets],edge), HasStep([date.eq(2014-03-10)]), HasStep([ticket_id.eq(70331)]), EdgeVertexStep(IN)]
## Setup

`$ bundle install --path vendor/support`

## execution

### Start DynamoDb local
`$ dynamodb-local --inMemory -port 9389`
Must restart each time you make data...


### make some test data
Make a store with 1000 tickets. Save 100 of them to sample in profiling.

`$ bundle exec ruby scripts/test_data.rb 1000 100`

Expected result:
```
starting script
Settting titan schema!
Making data
Tada - inserted 100 tickets for a store and wrote 100 properties to disk
```

### Running the filter test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.

`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb filter 50`

Expected output(profile results vary):
```
Profiling enabled; ^C shutdown will now dump profile info
starting script
Got store vertex in: 0.181 seconds
Getting vertex by edge properties
last ticket {"date"=>"2015-09-22", "ticket_id"=>"10586"}
Total time: 0.39

     total        self    children       calls  method
----------------------------------------------------------------
      0.39        0.00        0.39         929  Array#each
      0.30        0.00        0.30          51  Enumerable.first
      0.30        0.00        0.30          51  Pacer::Core::Route.each
      0.26        0.00        0.25          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipes::AbstractPipe#next
      0.25        0.00        0.25          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#processNextStart
      0.25        0.25        0.00          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipesTransform::InVertexPipe#next
      0.07        0.00        0.07          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.out_e
      0.06        0.00        0.06         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#chain
      0.04        0.00        0.04         767  Class#new
      0.04        0.00        0.04          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.outE
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Wrappers::ElementWrapper#chain_route
      0.03        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::Core::Route.chain_route
      0.03        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::Route.property_filter
      0.03        0.00        0.03         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_def
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Core::Route.iterator
      0.03        0.00        0.03        2703  Kernel.send
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.in_v
      0.02        0.00        0.02         102  Pacer::Core::Route.build_pipeline
      0.02        0.00        0.02         306  ConcreteJavaProxy.new
      0.02        0.00        0.02         153  Pacer::Core::Route.pipe_source
      0.02        0.00        0.01        3978  Hash#[]
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter.build_pipeline
      0.02        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extension_modules
      0.02        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::Route.edge_filters
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::ElementRoute.configure_iterator
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.inV
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#configuration
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1938  Hash#fetch
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::RouteBuilder#all_extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         918  Pacer::RouteBuilder#element_type
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Wrappers::WrapperSelector.build
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.extract_labels
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Wrappers::VertexWrapper.wrapper_for
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01         612  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_from_source?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#wrapper
      0.01        0.00        0.00        2193  Pacer::RouteBuilder#source_value
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  Pacer::RouteBuilder#function_modules
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Set#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         306  ConcreteJavaProxy#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1071  Pacer::RouteBuilder#graph
      0.01        0.00        0.00         306  Pacer::FunctionResolver.function
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Hash#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         255  Array#map
      0.01        0.00        0.01         153  Pacer::Core::Route.source_iterator
Tada - Got 51 of 100 edges using filter!
```

### Running the vci test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.
`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb vci 50`

Expected output (profile results vary):
```
Profiling enabled; ^C shutdown will now dump profile info
starting script
Got store vertex in: 0.189 seconds
Getting vertex by edge properties
last ticket {"date"=>"2015-09-22", "ticket_id"=>"10586"}
Total time: 3.83

     total        self    children       calls  method
----------------------------------------------------------------
      3.83        0.00        3.82         516  Array#each
      3.73        0.00        3.73          51  Enumerable.first
      3.73        0.00        3.72          51  Pacer::Core::Route.each
      3.68        0.00        3.68         102  Java::ComTinkerpopPipes::AbstractPipe#next
      3.68        0.00        3.68          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#processNextStart
      3.68        0.00        3.67          51  Java::ComTinkerpopPipesTransform::InVertexPipe#next
      3.67        0.00        3.67          51  Pacer::Pipes::VertexQueryPipe#processNextStart
      3.62        3.62        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbQueryVertex::VertexCentricQueryBuilder#edges
      0.07        0.00        0.07         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#chain
      0.05        0.00        0.05          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::VerticesRoute.vertex_query
      0.05        0.00        0.05         562  Class#new
      0.05        0.00        0.05          51  Pacer::Wrappers::ElementWrapper#chain_route
      0.04        0.00        0.04          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.in_v
      0.04        0.00        0.03         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_def
      0.03        0.00        0.03         204  ConcreteJavaProxy.new
      0.03        0.00        0.03          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::EdgesRoute.inV
      0.03        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Route.chain_route
      0.02        0.00        0.02        1479  Kernel.send
      0.02        0.01        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extension_modules
      0.02        0.00        0.02        2907  Hash#[]
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Graph::ElementRoute.configure_iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Core::Route.iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Pipes::WrappingPipe#initialize
      0.02        0.02        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbQuery::ResultSetIterator::1#iterator
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Wrappers::WrapperSelector.build
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Wrappers::VertexWrapper.wrapper_for
      0.02        0.00        0.02          51  Pacer::Route.property_filter
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#all_extensions
      0.01        0.00        0.01         612  Pacer::RouteBuilder#element_type
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1071  Hash#fetch
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.build_pipeline
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::RouteBuilder#configuration
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Set#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Route.edge_filters
      0.01        0.00        0.01         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#wrapper
      0.01        0.00        0.01         408  Pacer::RouteBuilder#type_from_source?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         714  Pacer::RouteBuilder#graph
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Java::ComThinkaureliusTitanGraphdbVertices::CacheVertex#query
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.attach_pipe
      0.01        0.00        0.01        1122  Pacer::RouteBuilder#source_value
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::EdgeFilters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.pipe_source
      0.01        0.00        0.00         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#extensions
      0.01        0.01        0.00          51  Hash#eql?
      0.01        0.00        0.01         204  Pacer::RouteBuilder#function_modules
      0.01        0.00        0.01         102  Pacer::Core::Route.source_iterator
      0.01        0.00        0.01          51  Pacer::Filter::PropertyFilter::Filters#initialize
      0.01        0.00        0.00          51  BasicObject#instance_exec
      0.01        0.00        0.00         204  Pacer::FunctionResolver.function
      0.01        0.00        0.00         102  Pacer::Route#initialize
Tada - Got 51 of 100 edges using vci!
```

### Running the ext test
Of the tickets in the grpah, profile getting 50 of the tickets using the saved sample properties.
`$ be ruby --profile.api scripts/pacer_testing.rb ext 50`


### Running the Gremlin tests
Follow the instructions in https://github.com/awslabs/dynamodb-titan-storage-backend

`bin/gremlin.sh  scripts/test_data.groovy`

`bin/gremlin.sh  scripts/gremlin_testing.groovy`

Currently, I can't get command line args to work with the script executor... so just modify the script for the values you want...

## Benchmark Results
Test results for gremlin and pacer

### Results
Times are from the profiled code block, best of 3 manual executions
Using Titan Dynamo backend with '--inmemeory'

#### Getting tickets by date and id:
| Tickets | Samples | VCI    (s)| Filter (s) | Ext    (s) | Gremlin(s) |
| ------: | ------: | ---------:| ----------:| ----------:| ----------:|
| 100     | 10      | 0.81      | 0.23       | 0.24       | 1.184      |
| 1000    | 10      | 0.74      | 0.33       | 0.33       | 1.072      |
| 10000   | 10      | 0.87      | 0.46       | 0.43       | 1.101      |
| 100000  | 10      | 0.84      | 0.97       | N/A        | N/A        |
| 10000   | 1       | 0.25      | 0.36       | 0.36       | 0.446      |
| 10000   | 50      | 3.55      | 0.54       | 0.60       | 3.61       |
| 10000   | 100     | 6.62      | 1.01       | 0.95       | 7.155      |
| 10000   | 1000    | 63.7      | 6.06       | 6.46       | 66.035     |
Did not test the ext method or gremlin with the largest graph.

These tests were run with paritioned store vertex and edge indexing on.

The test results above are all for getting the vertex by edge properties that are known to exist.
Doing an existence check for properties that are not present is slightly slower for filter, almost the same for VCI methods. This is relevant for upsert operations.

#### Testing 10,000/100 with different config and indexing

* Gremlin / Titan 1.0.0
|                | partition on | partition off |
| -------------: | -----------: | ------------: |
| edge index on  | 7.155        | 1.025         |
| edge index off | 1.395        | 1.248         |

* Pacer VCI
|                | partition on | partition off |
| -------------: | -----------: | ------------: |
| edge index on  | 6.62         | 0.78          |
| edge index off | 1.02         | 0.97          |

* Pacer Filter
|                | partition on | partition off |
| -------------: | -----------: | ------------: |
| edge index on  | 1.01         | 0.95          |
| edge index off | 1.49         | 1.01          |

### Environment
#### System
```
  Model Name: MacBook Pro
  Model Identifier: MacBookPro11,3
  Processor Name: Intel Core i7
  Processor Speed:  2.3 GHz
  Number of Processors: 1
  Total Number of Cores:  4
  L2 Cache (per Core):  256 KB
  L3 Cache: 6 MB
  Memory: 16 GB
```
OSX El Capitan, version 10.11.2 (15C50)

#### Java
```
$ java -version
java version "1.8.0_40"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_40-b25)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.40-b25, mixed mode)
```

#### Ruby
```
$ ruby --version
jruby 1.7.22 (1.9.3p551) 2015-08-20 c28f492 on Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 1.8.0_40-b25 +jit [darwin-x86_64]
```

#### DynamoDB Local
```
$ brew info dynamodb-local
dynamodb-local: stable 2015-07-16_1.0
Cient-side database and server imitating DynamoDB
```
See config directory for options used
Run with:
`$ dynamodb-local --inMemory -port 9389`

#### Bundled Gems and Jars
com.amazonaws:dynamodb-titan054-storage-backend:1.0.0
com.thinkaurelius.titan:titan-core:jar:0.5.4
com.thinkaurelius.titan:titan-es:jar:0.5.4
com.tinkerpop.blueprints:blueprints-core:jar:2.6.0

pacer (2.0.24-java)
pacer-titan (0.0.7-java)

See Jarfile.lock and Gemfile.lock for more details...


#### Gremlin Testing with Titan 1.0.0
gremlin 3.0.1-incubating
https://github.com/awslabs/dynamodb-titan-storage-backend/tree/d1a59624dcef796b835e7ffb41f0a3f007008d63
